No, after your program end date has passed, OGS is no longer able to extend your program. If you believe that you will need a program extension, please make sure that you apply with OGS well in advance. Not extending before your program end date will result in you losing valid F or J status and require corrective action at considerable expense to a student and potential loss of F-1 or J-1 benefits.
Do NOT mail the application yet. Contact OGS and make an appointment with an OGS advisor. You will most likely need a new Pre-Completion OPT recommendation and will need to reapply to the USCIS. You cannot resubmit your application if there is any chance your I-20 with Pre-Completion OPT recommendation will be more than 30 days old when it is received by the USCIS; this would result in a denial. If your packet has been returned to you, it is not considered received.
Although USCIS generally does not accept expedite processing, you may try including a job offer letter and a cover letter explaining your job is expected to start on a certain day and send them along with the required documents for the Post-Completion OPT application. If you already have submitted the application to USCIS, you may call customer service and ask how to request the expedite processing.
No. U.S. federal regulations require that all students taking a non-medical leave of absence spend the duration of their absence outside of the U.S.
A huge part of your responsibility of maintaining your F-1/J-1 status is by actively participating in classes in person. This includes students who are engaging in practical training (co-op, internships, clinical rotations, etc.). All students must also adhere to their college’s attendance and absenteeism policy. Therefore, OGS does not recommend that any F-1/J-1 student be absent from their courses for an extended period during the academic term. As an international student, this prolonged absence may impact your F-1/J-1 status and your long-term academic goals. If you are unable to attend your classes in person, you may be advised to pursue a leave of absence from your studies.
The Internal Revenue Service allows for certain delays in obtaining SSNs. USCIS has temporarily relaxed the I-9 requirements due to the COVID-19 emergency. You should check with your employer’s Human Resources contact regarding their practices. You may also refer to the Handbook for Employers M-274.
Yes, if you don’t need full-time course load to complete your program, you can still be less than full-time in your final term even if you received a reduced course load prior to your final term.
For the J-1 exchange visitors and their dependents, health insurance coverage must be for the full duration of your stay in the USA.
You may be eligible to obtain a Northeastern DS-2019 as a transfer student; however, the U.S. institution from where you are transferring out has to process your transfer request before the completion date of your current program at that institution. The area of study for your transfer program at Northeastern must be the same as your area of study at your current institution. You will need to work with your current institution’s international student office in order to follow the transfer out process and you will also need to work with OGS for the transfer in process.
Yes! You may enroll in both in-person and online courses at your leisure. However, if you plan to engage in any practical training opportunities, you must receive employment authorization.